{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}
}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 Normal Table;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid14813363}{\info{\title Formal dissertation proposal}{\author Computer Services}
{\operator Computer Services}{\creatim\yr2007\mo11\dy19\hr15\min16}{\revtim\yr2007\mo11\dy19\hr15\min16}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords1532}{\nofchars8738}{\*\company Goldsmiths College London}{\nofcharsws10730}{\vern24971}}
\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot14813363 \fet0
{\*\docvar {ColorPos}{-1}}{\*\docvar {ColorSet}{-1}}{\*\docvar {StylePos}{-1}}{\*\docvar {StyleSet}{-1}}\sectd \pgnrestart\linex0\footery864\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\header \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\kerning0\insrsid14813363 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\kerning0\insrsid14813363 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs32\ul\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par Formal dissertation proposal
\par 
\par 
\par Neo liberalism, U.S hegemony and the political economy of crisis 
\par A critical overview of Naomi Klein\rquote s }{\b\i\fs32\ul\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 \lquote Disaster capitalism, shock doctrine\rquote 
\par }{\b\fs32\ul\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 
\par 
\par Is disaster capitalism a tool to protect U.S hegemony?
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs32\ul\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 
\par 
\par 
\par BA politics with honours
\par Student no: 33039846
\par Dissertation tutor Gonzalo Pozo 
\par }\pard \qc \fi720\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs32\ul\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 
\par 
\par Formal proposal for Dissertation
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs32\ul\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs32\ul\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 The proposed topic of discussion for the following dissertation will focus on the idea of \lquote disaster capitalism
\rquote  as a tool to protect the U.S hegemony, as described by Naomi Klein. Within this research, several topics will need to be discussed, including the term \lquote disaster capitalism\rquote 
 and the way in which it can be used as tool to protect U.S hegemony, as well as the way neo-liberal regimes, such as the Reagan and Bush administrations, have seen disasters as an opportunity to open doors to foreign markets.  Finally, a c
ritical overview of Naomi Klein\rquote s }{\i\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 \lquote Disaster capitalism: shock doctrine\rquote }{\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 
 will be required to determine the credibility of her argument in terms of understanding U.S foreign policy.
\par 
\par In order to have a clear direction of analysis, several continuing argument
s formulated from the information generated from the research will be required. Based on preliminary research, three examples of continuing arguments have been developed. Firstly, the notion that over the last thirty years, U.S administrations have been d
e
pendent on disasters, both directly and indirectly, in order to infiltrate foreign markets. The second key argument, being the notion that neo-liberal regimes require new markets in order to avoid market saturation and remain profitable and the third, is 
concerned with U.S hegemony, specifically investigating its recent decline and the way in which the U.S has been forced to strengthen its hegemonic status, in order to remain a world economical and military super power in a uni-polar world.   
\par \tab 
\par In order to develop these key arguments, research will be vital in order to amass the necessary evidence relevant to the question. Naomi Klein\rquote s }{\i\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 \lquote Disaster capitalism: shock doctrine
\rquote }{\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363  explores disaster capitalism and the way in which it is implemented, using case studies. \lquote }{\i\fs24\cf1\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 
Hegemonic Decline: Past and Present\rquote }{\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363  provides an analysis of why U.S hegemony is in descent and how disaster capitalism can be used to prevent any future decline.  }{
\i\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 \lquote A brief history of neo liberalism\rquote  }{\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 by David Harvey will be used to understand neo lib
eral regimes and their constant need for new markets.  A number of other sources of information, including journals and articles, will be used in order to develop the research further.  This vigorous research is crucial in order to understand, investigate
 and demonstrate the way the United States uses disaster capitalism as a tool to protect U.S hegemony.
\par }\pard \qj \fi720\li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 
\par Since the first invasion of Iraq in 1992 led by president George Bush}{\i\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363  }{\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 
senior, U.S foreign policy seemed to have gone on the offensive, increasingly forci
ng its will on to opposing nations, as demonstrated in Afghanistan and Iraq.  It is this aggressive nature that seems to be shaping the international world and institutions of which we are governed by.  Naomi Klein }{
\i\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 \lquote Disaster Capitalism: Shock Doctrine}{\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 \rquote  add
resses the issue of the extremely aggressive U.S foreign policy and develops an understanding as to why the U.S feels the need to dominate the rest of the world.  Other key aims include exploring and assessing the new term \lquote disaster capitalism
\rquote , in order t
o find out how credible the theory is in trying to explain U.S foreign policy.  The relationship between neo-liberalism, U.S hegemony and disaster capitalism is particularly interesting as U.S hegemony is maintained by a neo-liberal state dependant on mar
ket expansion, resulting in the use of disaster capitalism as a viable method of securing foreign markets without any colonial connotations.
\par \tab 
\par 
\par In order to begin the research process required for the formulation of the dissertation preliminary reading will be required.  }{\i\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 \lquote  Disaster Capitalism: Shock Doctrine\rquote  }{
\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 by Naomi Klein,  }{\i\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 \lquote A Short History of Neo-liberalism\rquote }{\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363  by David Harvey, }{
\i\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 \lquote Hegemony\rquote }{\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363  by John Agnew and \lquote }{\i\fs24\cf1\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 
Hegemonic Decline: Past and Present, }{\fs24\cf1\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 by}{\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363  }{\field{\*\fldinst {\fs24\cf1\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363  HYPERLINK
 "http://www.ecampus.com/newbk_searchresult.asp?qtype=author&qsearch=Friedman%2C+Jonathan"}{\fs24\cf1\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363\charrsid14813363 {\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b0200000003000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90bb000000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e006500630061006d007000750073002e0063006f006d002f006e006500770062006b005f0073006500610072006300680072006500730075006c007400
2e006100730070003f00710074007900700065003d0061007500740068006f007200260071007300650061007200630068003d00460072006900650064006d0061006e002500320043002b004a006f006e0061007400680061006e000000}}}{\fldrslt {
\fs24\cf1\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 Friedman, Jonathan}}}{\fs24\cf1\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 ; }{\field{\*\fldinst {\fs24\cf1\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363  HYPERLINK
 "http://www.ecampus.com/newbk_searchresult.asp?qtype=author&qsearch=Chase%2DDunn%2C+Christopher"}{\fs24\cf1\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363\charrsid14813363 {\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b0200000003000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90bbe00000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e006500630061006d007000750073002e0063006f006d002f006e006500770062006b005f0073006500610072006300680072006500730075006c007400
2e006100730070003f00710074007900700065003d0061007500740068006f007200260071007300650061007200630068003d0043006800610073006500250032004400440075006e006e002500320043002b004300680072006900730074006f0070006800650072000000}}}{\fldrslt {
\fs24\cf1\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 Chase-Dunn, Christopher}}}{\fs24\cf1\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363  have all been selected for preliminary reading as each book sets out many of the key topics and arguments. }{
\i\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 \lquote  Disaster Capitalism: Shock Doctrine\rquote  }{\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 
by Naomi Klein looks at a new strategy to secure foreign markets.  The book analyses various events, including the tsunami in Sri Lanka and the invasion o
f Iraq, to demonstrate how the U.S uses these disasters to gain a further hold in these volatile markets.  For example, the coastal land destroyed in Sri Lanka was soon snapped up at a deflated rate by U.S firms who saw an  opportunity to capitalise as a 
result of this disaster.  The book also goes on to describe, not only how the U.S uses disaster capitalism, but also the reasoning behind it. 
\par }{\i\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 \lquote A Short History of Neo-liberalism\rquote }{\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363  by David Harvey describes Neo-liberalism as a doctrine with market exchange ac
ting as an ethic in itself, with the potential to act as a guide for human action, which has become a dominant thought and practice throughout much of the world since 1970.  David Harvey tells the political-economic story of where neo-liberalization came 
f
rom and how it proliferated on the world stage. Through critical engagement with this history, a framework has been structured, not only for analyzing the political and economic dangers such as market saturation, but also for assessing the prospects for t
he more socially just alternatives being advocated by many oppositional movements. 
\par }{\i\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 \lquote Hegemony\rquote }{\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 
 by John Agnew describes the push to create consumer capitalism abroad through political pressures. This book explains that the primary goal of the foreign and eco
nomic policies of the United States is a world which reflects their way of doing business. It shows how this drive for global hegemony is now backfiring and how the U.S are trying to combat this decline.
\par 
\par In order to fully investigate the question, several
 problems may occur during the conducting of this research.  The first being the fact that disaster capitalism is a relatively new theory.  For this reason, when embarking on a critical overview it may prove difficult to find many critics of the book and 
therefore be increasingly difficult to determine the credibility of the book.  The amount of research across many areas may also prove to be problematic, as the research will need to be detailed and up to date, drawing on numerous credible sources.
\par 
\par Various
 different methods will be implemented in order to generate various forms of data collection, each required for a unique purpose.  For the purpose of this particular dissertation, case studies, journals, articles/archival sources and academic books will a
l
l be required.  Analysis of case studies can be seen as an appropriate research method as they will allow for detailed analysis of global disasters, thus helping to explore why disaster capitalism is seen as a viable explanation to U.S foreign policy and 
t
he reasoning behind these disasters. Journals are crucial in relation to this research, as they help to explore and descried what is going on.  By comparing journals an objective account of events can be formulated.  Articles/archival sources also allow f
o
r a comprehensive account of incidents when trying to understand the relationship between disaster capitalism, neo-liberalism and hegemony.  This allows for clear conclusions to be drawn from the data gathered. Academic book such as those mentioned in the
 
preliminary readings will all so be key to the research.  The gathering of the data from these books would allow for a well-rounded opinion on the topic of disaster capitalism.  These books would primarily aid by providing the theory, which will be used t
o
 make sense of the data collected from case studies, journals and archives by trying to offer explanations to the problems.  The following methods have been chosen as they all serve a purpose whether it be exploration of the topic, a description of events
 or a theoretical explanation of events.  By using researching to explore, describe and explain, concrete conclusions can be formed.
\par In order to fully answer the question the dissertation needs to be dissected into manageable chapters.  This will allow for 
a more detailed, concise and clear analysis of the topic.  The function of the preliminary chapter is to outline what is meant by the term disaster capitalism and how it is used to acquire new markets.   To develop this argument, the relationship between 
neo-liberalism, U.S hegemony and disaster capitalism will analysed to provide evidence.  The purpose of this chapter is to outline what disaster capitalism is and demonstrate the United States need for new markets to protect its global hegemony. 
\par The second
 chapter will outline neo-liberalism and develop the argument that neo-liberal regimes require new markets in order to survive by using case studies and relating these case studies to the theory of disaster capitalism.  This argument is based on the work 
of Milton Friedman and requires further background research into what neo-liberalism is and where it came from.  
\par The third chapter outlines what hegemony is and how it relates to disaster capitalism.  Linking hegemony to disaster capitalism and neo-liberal
ism will develop this argument.  The key idea revolves around the theme that in order to secure global hegemony one will first require the acquisition of foreign markets, thus disaster capitalism is a required strategy.  Backgr}{
\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\super\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\super\kerning0\insrsid14813363 
\chftn }{\kerning0\insrsid14813363  }}}{\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 ound reading on what hegemony is crucial for this chapter.  
\par The forth chapter is a critical overview of the book }{\i\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 \lquote Disaster capitalism: shock doctrine\rquote .}{\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid14813363 
  By forming a critique of the book it will be possible to judge the worth of the book in terms of theory.  To do this, articles 
and case studies on this topic must be examined to prove that the aggressive nature of U.S foreign policy is based on the ideas of disaster capitalism. 
\par The final chapter is the summary and conclusion. The evidence from previous chapters will be drawn toge
ther and analysed to form conclusions.  The overall idea here will be to demonstrate how disaster capitalism can be seen as a key strategy in protecting us hegemony, by taking over foreign markets to sculpt the world in their own image.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }}